# Java-Program
This was a Java programming project that I recently completed in my Computer Programming II class. The idea was to create a system that would contain various objects that held
information about an apartment complex that had a certain amount of different apartment rooms with various room numbers, bedrooms, bathrooms, and the amount for rent. The user would be asked to input the desired criteria for their apartment room of choiced (i.e. how many bedrooms and bathrooms they wanted and or needed) and the maximum amount of rent that they could pay for living there. If the user's input was approximately a match, the program would output the object or objects that relates closest to their input and preferences. These objects would consist of the number of the apartment room, the number of bedrooms, the number of bathrooms, and the amount for rent. If the user's input could not be met or is not found, the output would display a message informing the user that no matches could be found based on their input. The program works by utilizing two different java classes. The reason that there are two java files here is because one of the files holds the constructor for the apartment objects. This class is known as the "Apartment2" class. The other java file contains the main function of the program, or the main class. This class is called "TestApartment2." Both of these classes are able to coexist in the same source package allowing them to utilize each other in order to complete their main function. You can notice this by looking at the top of both files and seeing the line that says "package testapartment2," which indicates that these two java classes both exist in the same source package. Inside both java classes are in line comments marked with two forward slashes  "//" (and sometimes "/* & /*"). These are meant to have or show brief descriptions of what each par of the code is, how it fits int the code, and what it is supposed to be doing. To start off, I created the Apartment class. The Apartment class first consists of four private data types that hold the room number, the bedrooms, the bathrooms, and the rent amount. These are known as private data types because for the purposes of this particular program they are not meant to be accessed by any other classes because the actual numbers and data on our objects are going to be declared in our main class. After we name and declare our data types and variables, we start to build our constructor. The constructor is what allows us to create and store data in our objects that we'll make back in our main class. This is where we'll call on our variables that were created earlier so that the TestApartment objects can be used and will display properly. Finally after that, we have our return statements, or our "getter" methods. These statements are basically going to return our variables back to their original source so that new objects can exist and that there are no static variables in the class. Now we can finally talk about our main function (or main class). TestApartment. In TestApartment, this is basically where everything that I described earlier is happening. this is where our Apartment objects are actually being created based on my work earlier in the Apartment class. Important to note that before this part of the program starts, I imported a Scanner at the top of the program. This will allow us to create a scanner object that will actually prompt user input since this is the program that actually interacts with the user. Starting off in the main class, we have created 5 different Apartment objects with various different room numbers and accomodations. It is worth noting that these objects can be edited if need be and more objects can be added should there be the need or desire to do so. Thes are the objects that will or will not display based on the user's input.  The next lines of code are where the user is asked various questions about their preferences for their room. Such as, "How many bedrooms would you like?" or "How many bathrooms do you need?" and "What is the maximum amount of rent you can afford?" Based on the user's input, the program will take these values and try to find the best options for the user if any can be found. After that, there are several blocks of code in the form of "if" statements. These lines of code make decisions based on the users criterea on what to have displayed to the screen and in what order. For example, if the user types in that they want 3 bathrooms but can only pay $600.00, Apartment objects 3, 2,and 1 will display as potential matches. The user can then decide which option they'd rather have or if they want to consider paying extra for the third bathroom. Notice that there is a final "if" statement near the bottom that will display if the user's input does not match any of the objects in the main class. Finally, the very last few blocks of code are whats actually reading the user's input and allowing the other "if" statements to make a decision on the output of the Apartment objects. For instance the statement will look for an variable inside one of the objects (like the number of bedrooms) that is greater than or equal to the user's input. The only exception being the rent amount that looks for less than or equal to user input. If something yields a "true" result, the program makes a decision and displays the output. In all honesty, I'm not that experienced with Java programming and sometimes I just straight up don't like it, but I was pretty happy about how this turned out. Especially since a lot of the last few details I worked on by myself without too much assistance. It's also just a neat and admittedly fun little program and something worth revisiting and tweaking to get more objects in and more variables to consider.
